# Frame 

ROV Maelstrom’s frame consists of two main vertical plates connected by five supporting horizontal plates. Each horizontal plate is joined by a hybrid mortise and tenon joint firmly secured with a bolt. The mortise and tenon joints reduce shear load on the bolts and are found to perform well under tensile load. In comparison with Purdue's previous frames, which used a horizontal dual layer system, ROV Maelstrom's frame has better volume efficiency and allows for additional internal augmentation. Proven Robotics took weight into consideration when selecting building materials. Past ROVs were significantly negatively buoyant, with most of this excess mass in the frame. Creating a low mass, yet strong and rigid frame, was necessary for this year’s design to meet the mission requirements. 

The team considered plastic as an alternative to metal due to its lower density; however, the company found that Aluminum 6061 T-6 is better than several lessexpensive plastic. The aluminum is able to sustain most  material removal and maintain its overall strength. In some pieces  of the frame, up to eighty percent of the material was removed,  an unattainable feat for most plastics due to their lower modulus  of elasticity. Finite element analysis (FEA) was used to analyze  the frame throughout the design process to ensure the structural  integrity of the ROV. The resulting frame weighs 1.6  kilograms in air and is one of the lightest frames in the team's history. A lighter frame means less buoyant foam material needs to  be added for neutral buoyancy, allowing for smaller overall volume.