# ROV-Maelstrom-Electronics

ROV Maelstrom’s electronics were designed to facilitate easy and reliable command over the course of the ROV’s lifetime. Command starts at the Control Center, the surface electronics that the user interfaces with. This includes a laptop computer, a network router, and a 48 V power supply protected with a 40-A fuse. 

Communication with the Control Center is done through the tether with a Category 5 Ethernet cable, which provides high bandwidth and noise immunity. The power is transmitted through two 12-AWG marine wires. Onboard the ROV, it steps down the 48 V to 12 V, 5 V, and 3.3 V for use by the ROV’s eight T200 thrusters, the hydraulics motor, and the Main Electronics inside the Electronics Tube. The Power Distribution Box contains the Power Distribution Board, which handles the 48 V to 12 V power conversion and thruster control. Inside of the Electronics Tube are the Main Microcontroller Board, the Power Regulator Board, and the Application Board which are all connected via the Backplane. The Main Microcontroller Board handles the central logic processing of the ROV and communication with the surface, Application Board, and Power Distribution Board. The Power Regulator Board supplies the 5 V required by the electronics inside of the Electronics Tube, while the Application Board controls the LED lighting of ROV Maelstrom. The Navigation Board is used for pressure and attitude measurements and is placed outside of the Electronics Tube for reduced magnetic interference and direct contact with water. The board also hosts the sonar transmitter used for GPS-like navigation. The Sonar Receiver Board in the Control Center is used to receive and filter the sonar transmission signals. The printed circuit boards were designed in-house with the use of CadSoft's EAGLE software and then hand populated