# PCB-Maelstrom-Power-Dist-Board

The primary purpose of the Power Distribution Board is to convert high power voltage from 48 V to 12 V and pass the 12 V to the rest of the ROV systems, including the thrusters. Power conversion is accomplished by four compact DRQ-12/50-L48 series 600-W quarter brick buck regulators. Under full load, the quarter-bricks operate at an estimated 96% efficiency rate. While using linear regulators could have offered a more cost efficient solution, the added voltage conversion inefficiencies and generated heat would have resulted in a more complicated, and more failure prone design. The 12 V output directly powers the eight Blue Robotics T200 thrusters, the hydraulic pump, and the Main Electronics. By doing all of the high voltage drop conversions on the Power Distribution Board, the Main Electronics are physically isolated from the noisy conversion process. 

The Power Distribution Board is also tasked with taking commands from over the CAN bus and translating those commands into outputs for the thrusters. This is done through an I2C-to-PWM integrated circuit, which takes commands over I2C and outputs the 8 different PWM (Pulse-Width-Modulation) channels required to allow for discrete command of each thruster. While I2C was originally intended to control the thrusters, back voltage left the original Electronic Speed Controllers (ESCs) inoperable.  This lead us to use PWM controlled ESCs. The I2C-to-PWM chip was added to produce PWM signals without taking up the majority of the dedicated PWM pins on the microcontroller. 